I'm recording in beautiful Seattle
Washington talking do horrible horrible
and Chris Copeland to places that are
probably kind of cold and rainy this
time of year hard to say hard to say
which one's more horrible place to find
yourself but any we're having a very
stimulating 10 day trip to Seattle
because right now our landlord is
installing new carpeting in the
apartment that we will move into when we
get back to Victoria and phlegm face
don't worry I won't say anything
probably fun taste is actually
considering her own options that she
move on may move on to shall we say
greener pastures is it unbeatens that
greener pastures should not stay enough
all right that's my segue you're
indirectly endorsing the explanation of
cows by using their face alright it
brings people together when they can
collectively just like someone money
power fame respect sex these are the
motives for why people why people come
on YouTube and do this not in that order
you know and like look keeping all the
way real like you know so the main thing
that's disappeared is the money right
like you were saying yourself like just
the idea that uploading every day is
gonna mean that you can quit your job
people used to really believe that
durianrider sold that myth and I can't I
can't tell you who this was but I knew a
guy he's on YouTube but I also knew him
as a real person and he was telling me
how horrified he was he met during ride
her face-to-face with his girlfriend and
durianrider was like lecturing his
girlfriend about how she was going to be
able to quit her job as soon as should
be making something yeah
the girlfriend that point having a
channel on YouTube that was only known
to family and friends like 50 views per
video kind of thing you know
you know the journal writer face-to-face
does that with people too of really
trying to preach to them and then after
a jury might her left the room this guy
had to sit there with his girlfriend or
I don't know ride the bus this
girlfriend I know what situation was but
he was trying to deprogram I sorta said
look you know it's really important that
you know that stuff you told you it's
not true you know that's really not true
at all that's not the way YouTube works
that's not the way you know the revenue
works so money money left the game where
the money came down to a much much lower
level than people perceived it to be
previously right and so again keeping
this all the way real I've been talking
to different people about having a
conference so I'm not academic but a
formal conference where we present
papers we've written in vancouver canada
west coast of canada and talking to
people inviting and i say look you know
i admit this is a lot of time and money
and effort and you know i know how it is
what's your reward for doing this if
you're not you know if you're not
getting laid you know the girlfriend or
something you want to meet up with in
vancouver if there's not somebody you're
sharing the hotel room with it's really
hard to justify the time and money to
come to a conference of this kind and I
was not imagining by the way doing like
a Kickstarter or crowd funding to pay
for people's airplane tickets which is
also very hard to justify it's very hard
to ask people to donate money so that a
couple of speakers can come to a vegan
animal-rights type type conference I
know it's done I know it's possible but
I do find that hard to do you know so I
mean again I don't want to talk about
sex as if it's something really negative
I think sex can be a really positive
force in a lot of people's lives I think
people do buy airplane tickets to go to
you know veg fest and other vegan events
in major cities in the world because
they want to find a girlfriend or they
want to find a boyfriend or you know I
think there's the you know human
sexuality is a reason why people come on
camera I was saying to a guy who does
you know the other day he was talking he
did a period of time where he did you
know broadcasting
day for 20 days straighter so I forget
the number of days but he kind of
challenged himself and I was shocked
my honest response was you know but
you're married like why would you bother
like the only people I've known who were
motivated to you that much broadcast is
because they were looking for a
girlfriend or a boyfriend or something
like that so you know um money fame
power respect sex these are the things
that motivate this this kind of behavior
and you know when one by one those are
taken out of the picture then you get
you get less and less of that and again
remember so look okay that's kind of
chapter one if you anything about that
we can talk we can talk more about that
but then the other side of it that I
deal with it all the time is that people
otherwise find me um daunting or
intellectually challenging to talk to
you've been talking to me for two hours
too cumbersome oh thanks for you at all
but you know when I when I've offered to
collab to people sometimes people say
back to me directly at some times I see
it or hear it indirectly they say it on
their YouTube channel that they were
afraid to talk to me that they you know
they think I'm gonna make them look
stupid or feel stupid or you know that
somehow it's too it's too so in my case
that's also going on you know even
recently he hosted an actual this
weekend stupid in the flesh with
collaborative people who joined as
guests I'm gonna give you another
example on a very different scale so we
were just
in Naima Canada Nanaimo is a small town
or anyway it's definitely not it's a
small city or a big town whatever want
to say but this is a small community
Nanaimo Canada officially has three
thousand Chinese residents perhaps the
real number because a lot of people are
living there unofficially is closer to
seven thousand and they have a Chinese
language newspaper and I believe that
newspaper has at least three full-time
employees maybe four or five I didn't
ask the number I've been to their
offices they have a physical bricks and
mortar office I was over here I've been
to their offices I met their editor and
when I walked out of there with my
girlfriend I said why don't we as vegans
have this weather in Victoria or
Vancouver or Glasgow or anywhere in the
world you know we suck as a community
we're a failure and we kept on failing
so out of the 7,000 Chinese people in
Nanaimo how many of them care about that
newspaper a Chinese language newspaper
maybe 300 you know it's just not
everyone's gonna be interested you don't
have seen their stats they don't have a
huge number
they have advertisers who support their
existence who really paid for the
newspaper to exist on paper and on the
internet and I am certain those
advertisers do it partly out of a sense
of community spirit like you know partly
they're paying to advertise their
service but I think they are aware
they're paying for a kind of community
paper they're not you know they could be
advertising somewhere else I think there
is a mix of charitable motives and
community blend modes and these people
have a newspaper okay thank you for my
video on community or what have you you
know the sky's the limit people
obviously I think a boxing match is
attainable obviously I think you know
conference is attainable in my case a
court case was attainable you know I've
got six thousand five minutes to this
court case obviously people selling
t-shirts is attainable but you know more
really is attainable and so I mean just
think about how special it is in Chinese
it's only in Chinese there's no English
not for Vancouver not for Toronto not
for New York not for Los Angeles for
Nanaimo for the Chinese people of
Nanaimo they have their own newspaper
with an office and full-time employees
right what is the global reach what is
the significance of people who'd be
interested in a veganism let's say it's
a veganism and ecology paper let's say
you don't just do veganism you also do
some kind of scientific articles and
update articles about deforestation and
ecology well or you could define it
another way you could have a veganism
and anti-war publication I know one
group in Taiwan they got a lot of
attention that a lot of people who are
vegan are also anti-war so you can
combine vegan message with news and
politics about current ongoing Wars now
horrible they are on their body counts
they have a kind of pro-peace become
what do you think the market is for that
I think it's more than 7,000 people so
it's so so we suck ok that's my point
here we are at failure we've been
failing for 50 years and we keep on
failing and yeah and it's it's it's
really a significant example in contrast
to any of these things yeah no it's
funny do you bring up buildings because
I remember by the train station there is
this building and I think they supply
renewable energy but when you get a
glass building business building but
inside it has loads of trees and it also
has a massive treehouse networking and
she was like do you really think so
actually go in that building that you've
managed well it's a real interesting
question ask because you know I say all
the time like vegans are fractious and
fragmentary like how much do we have in
common how much do I have in common with
fully raw Christina how much do I have
in common with during how much I haven't
gone with you
you know there are a lot of deep ghosts
but then you look at a new store that
how much do Chinese people have in
common you know there are really deep
divides within the Chinese community
they don't even all speak the same
language like some of them are from
Fujian and they speak Fujian ease and
some of them speak Hakka and some there
are several different languages involved
politically some of them are
pro-communist and some of them are
anti-communist and some of them are
sitting on the fence there are really
deep divisions of this some of them are
pro-american and some of them are
anti-american terrible these are big
questions in the air and yet you manage
to have a newspaper for them you know
it's it's a real question what's
possible now and look you're talking to
the right guy about this because I say
all the time you know I'm all for
outreach and I'm interested in starting
my own charity or my own nonprofit to do
you know outreach education and lobbying
direct government lobbying I'm thinking
issues that I'd like to get that rolling
here in Canada but most of what I've
done with my energy in the last three
years has not been reaching out to
non-vegans it's been reaching out to
other vegans and saying look guys let's
organize the vegans we've already got
let's do something positive with the
manpower and talent you know we already
have and the results the results are
shockingly close to zero right the
results are looser except for what you
already mentioned the drama and the way
in which you hit the nail on the head
that's why I didn't comment the way in
which hatred of a common enemy drew
people together right which is a very
dark but very real aspect of
civilization I remember a political
science professor once saying that back
when Margaret Thatcher was in was in
charge in England she was the Prime
Minister of England he hated Margaret
Thatcher and he spent all his time and
energy criticizing barca Thatcher and
writing articles about Ho terraformer
Thatcher was but he said the moment
Germany invaded England he would have
become the world's most ardent supporter
of Margaret Thatcher against Germany or
something you know so he was recognising
his own hypocrisy this way the hatred of
a common enemy that does seem to you
know galvanize people on jobs together
that way
and it's it's nothing to be proud of but
on my channel is a microcosm we've
gotten to see exactly that contrast
right I've got this very easy framework
where it's look I have all these contact
details you send me a video of your
topical your choice I will I will edit
it put something over myself and give it
back to you and you can use it the
number of people who have done it has
been shockingly low and that's a very
I'm making content for them in that
sense or editing content for them and
still it's hard to get them to they're
like oh we've just been here for three
hours right well a lot a lot of people
first discovered my channel back when I
tried to collaborate with vegan
revolution aka Josh in making a welcome
home video for vegan cheetah when he
just got out of jail we have there you
go that's how you discover my shelters
that he just got out of rehab and Josh
blew his deadline and cheetah was
already out of rehab and there was no
thing and I got his permission
I said look can I have your permission
to edit together the clips I've already
got here and do this because it's you
know it's too late the guys already out
of rehab there's supposed to be a
welcome home thing and Josh said yes you
know I can screenshot that if you want
he did give permission and then 24 hours
later she took back his permission and
said no I shouldn't have given you
permission you don't know this is
terrible this is a betrayal of my
artistic vision all that stuff so you
know that was a hilarious example of
attempted collaboration gone wrong and
most of the other people who collaborate
they never heard anything back but I
contributed to this and then vegan
revolution somehow bungled it and
disappeared and [ __ ] you know
anyway they know I know that one did
they did have a big positive emotional
don khon Charles Charles Marlow vegan
cheetah back then when he was being a
normal human being instead of a cartoon
character he really thanked me it really
it really meant Sonia then he started
watching my channel and it went from
there but yeah you know um I think the
other lesson you've got to take from
looking at say the last three years on
YouTube we're seeing this right now with
Joey carb strong almost all of the
vitality in YouTube is an echo of what's
going on in old media and traditional
media you know so the same way somebody
like Gary Yourofsky or somebody like
Frehley suddenly had a huge surge in
public interest that really was tied to
the fact that Gary Yourofsky did
television interviews and that freely
had a series of mainstream newspaper
articles about her you know that drew in
you know a lot of Attraction a lot of
interest a lot of action and that's not
the only factor but we've just seen that
right now with Joey Armstrong I remember
when he was in nobody I remember when he
was a durianrider clone he was in
Thailand the same time I was when I had
my conflict with during writer and
solenoid and he believed in that stupid
you know high carb low fat diet he did
during writers died he gained a bunch of
weight he got tubby he got a potbelly
under his diet you know riding his
bicycle and eating 15 bananas a day or
whatever you know he gained a lot of
weight doing that and then he had to
lose her weight he slim right bottom
line you know the energy behind his
channel is because of mainstream you
know media recognition even if it's
critical even if it's if it's negative
and that's that's a lot of what we've
seen in in YouTube so I'm you know other
things have changed there are other
lessons you can draw from it but that's
that's another one of the big ones right
is that a lot of what we're doing is
playing in the shadows of conventional
media or old media or you know I don't
know it's it's nice to think of you too
is creating something new but the sense
in which YouTube is something new is a
lot more like Video Email it's like if I
just put up a video on YouTube that's
really like sending an email to my
friends and family and then I can email
them and say hey watch my video on
YouTube and my friends and family can
watch it but moving beyond that actually
having an audience of thousands of
people who want to see your content that
still relies very heavily on whether
it's newspapers radio or TV the thing is
she said you know so many you will end
up with so many different things given
the you know had this experience in last
year's I remember when your channel was
much more just monologue senator was
just you kymaro's and then you really
put your time and energy into into
collaborating more people and you know I
kind of had my period doing that for me
it took a long time for me to get the
first person to collaborate on my
channel and he was British the first guy
to appear on my channel was violent
vegan who's really kind of faded from
the scene now but you know and before
that people were really afraid to talk
to me I think you know another example I
don't know if you caught this example
but you know when I talked to Jason
Ficino aka hennya manias boyfriend he's
also really faded from the vegan scene
ever at the time he was really
well-known because he was hideous he was
saying his boyfriend when Jason came on
my channel I wasn't trying
to insult him or Punk him or you know
make him feel bad but um he was living
in Israel at the time and he did not
know the word oh Sh wits or what the
significance of Auschwitz was that was
obvious and people were a lot of people
were really laughing like oh you know
what aisel made you look stupid
I think a lot of people were kind of
concerned but talking to me I'd somehow
make them look stupid or make them look
politically foolish which is I mean it's
not why I'm on YouTube I'm just saying
it's not why I'm here
it can happen I'm going to happen with
Jason but you know not like I was trying
to make that happen with Jason I just
assumed he'd heard of Auschwitz before
especially given he was living in Israel
at the time but anyway um you know let
me ask you this
looking ahead next say two years what do
you think is the best possible scenario
and what do you think is the worst got
possible now what good can come of the
energy you put in to collaborate because
I think based on what you've said you've
seen the good of the bad of it so far
right yeah well first I'd say you know
with people just up said the
approachability is a massive issue
I didn't collab for a long time simply
because I was a spectator and completely
forgot that I could actually talk to
these people and they weren't
untouchable they weren't these special
people who but there was this kind of
idea in the vegan community with some
others the you know wait this is my life
I I am one of these elite vegans
yeah you can't talk to me because I'm
not going to talk to you back but that's
not the imager to actually there's a lot
of people willing to talk and then
they're like oh yeah this is such a good
idea
why don't we done this before but I
think don't see your question the worst
thing that can happen is I've seen it
now over trusting myself some details
about where I work you get this kind of
idea that these people are kind of your
family but every day it's
more people are coming in and they're
assuming a part of a crucian it's just
like maybe the worst thing that could
happen is people going their separate
ways
collectively crumbing because you know
one person audience member sees you and
then then sees the whole group you're
growing together having a larger reach
and then being able to maybe even afford
in the future if you have your merch and
stuff be able to afford to actually come
together yeah I know
merch I don't merch is the way to do
that but yeah when we renovated it but I
think I can go you one better you might
think at this point I mentioned the
example of Durham right about going to I
think in terms of the dangers of
collaboration it's interesting you said
being overly trusting I think my
experience with Josh with vegan
revolution is a kind of really negative
really important example that way cuz
you know I appointed you there was a
time when Josh was my friend you know he
talked to me about personal life stuff
you know my family and he talked to me
about his personal life I didn't know
his name but he was just meeting
revolution but he talked about his
struggles with depression and you know
his education you know he was this
former filmmaker and stuff you know he
was a friend of mine and over something
completely trivial over that welcome
home vegan cheetah vegan cheetah a film
you know he he flips to become my
arch-nemesis you know which I give him
no reason to do I've made it I sent him
an apology and I made apology videos and
look I'm sorry understand this is your
position so I offered to take down the
video and I did take on the video and he
said he didn't want to take it down I
put it back up whatever but you know he
for how many years for at least two
years you know he was on a constant
campaign to defame and announce me to
say that I had no right to see my own
daughter that I was somehow a terrible
parent or an abusive parent that was an
abusive husband
to make up lies above my divorce max way
and he actually got in touch with he
phoned and spoke to my ex-wife trying to
get dirt on me and he collaborated with
durianrider and trying to publicly
defame it announce me no he didn't come
up with anything I mean you know you
heard my conversation that was on my
channel in the end he had nothing on it
all came nothing but you had a guy like
that and you know making YouTube
comments I saw the most in written form
mostly I have also heard him verbally
you know on his podcast he's suggesting
that I'm employed by the CIA to a
destroy veganism from within this kind
of thing but I mean for like two years
you have someone that obsessively trying
to to destroy you uh you know look I'm
now 39 years old did it upset me you
know no and that's why I offered to talk
to the guy had the podcast like I gave
them opportunities and positive but
that's the real warning you can have
that experience and I think you know I
think most people would find it more
upsetting than I did especially if the
person formerly was your was your friend
all right and you know long story short
cheetah is similar and there was a time
when vegan cheetah really was my friend
and then he flipped to being my enemy in
a very cartoonish and sincere way
because he thought he could get more
YouTube views out of it or whatever you
know so that's I think that's really the
warning and you know we're fractious
we're fragmentary we don't have that
much in common but I know this comes up
with I mentioned this to my current
girlfriend Melissa a lot or I say look
you know remember I mean in some ways
I'm a snob some ways I just don't want
to spend with people I don't want to
spend time with people that I consider
stupid or useless or bad for the vegan
cause but in the other hand I've really
made an effort to reach out to some of
these people some of these crackpots
including Charles Marlow vegan cheetah
and what have you
I've made an effort to overcome those
bears and other examples the light twins
right that goes way back you know I
reached out to the light twins broke up
they broke up they're no longer than
another light twin singular there's only
one of them but yeah they went nuts and
broke up and that guy's obviously now
into some really weird you know
alternative spirituality and stuff but
you know those are guys I don't have a
lot in common with but we recorded one
really good podcast together and you
know I talked to them about their work
history and educational you know talk to
them about life I was really willing to
reach out to and and work with those
people for veganism you know for the
cause for the future of the movement and
this is where I'm at for me after three
years of that or something you know I
depending on the account they might
YouTube channels past four years now but
you know it's it's pretty negative and I
think those are really the warnings
about the the downside of collaboration
I don't think anyone else is gonna have
the same kind of problem I had with
Duran Ryder but I think that kind of
problem that I had with Josh you can
have again and again and the internet is
not running out of you know obsessive
you know I know that are you talking
about oh yeah yeah he's still trying to
get touch with you know the BDDs group
as well and try to get in and he just
doesn't understand how to speak to
people it's very confusing it but that
whole situation it was so exhausting I
genuinely thought that his threats were
true that he was going to hack me that I
had to change all my passwords to this
day I have lengthy password remember
just and you know I had to call the
police at one point and it's just a very
real thing I didn't understand how there
were people who could do this regular
basis like look at Charles result but
there was a long time when people
calling up or calling up him and giving
him death friends I was just like how
could you how could that be your life
isn't it easiest just collaborate with
people and talk about ideas of debate
yeah
yeah you know yeah different people are
playing different games by different
rules on the internet you know what are
you trying to win and and what are you
trying to lose and what are the what are
the rules you play by and kind of nobody
agrees to those rules before they get
involved this and people do get their
hearts broken and it does have a really
negative you know impacts in their lives
but the other side of it is I think this
is especially true of vegans meat like
maybe people who are video game fans
this is true of but it's way more true
of vegans on the internet or Star Trek
fans or some of these other special
communities the feeling we have of
vegans I think is really of being alone
in the crowd you feel isolated you feel
nobody you know understands you and it
hasn't come up that much in this
conversation but you know we are
witnesses to this you know unbelievable
atrocity that's happening on a daily
basis we see things other people don't
see we used to serve on my girlfriend
Melissa died we used to go to the
supermarket and the farmer's market in
China and you know they'd be hanging the
whole pig there with its with its head
on there'd be these pieces of meat
hanging from the roof and I would just
joke to her like oh don't you feel
tempted to go back to eating meat is
this stinking rotting flesh with you
know the the Flies on it everything you
know there were not many flies oh there
were few but since I'm not teaming with
flies or anything you know if this awful
spectacle of of these corpses you know
that here in the West in a sense you see
the same thing in a sense you don't it's
neatly wrapped in plastic in a little
white square and so on you know but I
was I was just yesterday we were at the
grocery store together and I was really
horrified by seeing lobster tails set
out on ice you know I just wondered you
know how can this be you know how is
this acceptable to people how is this
invisible or normal you know seeing
seeing chopped up pieces of lobster
sitting on an ice that way and knowing
where it comes from and why it's there
and why it's made that way so
the reason why they sell pieces of a
lobster they'd make more money if they
could sell you the whole lobster so
something happened to damage the rest of
the lobsters body you know in the net or
in the cage or whatever you know it's a
reason why this one's being sold in
pieces and this one over here is selling
for a higher price hole you know all
right it's intuitively obvious and think
about it um anyway you know we see those
things other people don't see or we see
them in a different way we feel in every
way you have this terrible sense of
being alone in the crowd and being
ethically burdened by that so we don't
want to be alone anymore and you know
again even without a mention before sex
money power fame even with that taken
out you know when I was reaching out
trying to collaborate with Josh in the
first place Josh aka pecan revolution
that's for others are the reasons we had
other things in common he grew up Hindu
I used to be Buddhist you know we
thought we'd talk about Sanskrit and
Buddhism and India and Southeast Asia
and stuff I thought we had other things
to talk about but you know sure it is
also that that isolation of being vegan
even if you have meat eating friends or
meat-eating family member saying I'm
specifically wanting to know other
vegans I'm wanting to feel like you're
part of a movement or part of a
community or part of something or at
least knowing other people who
commiserate with you about that that
unbelievable burden you know that horror
we're all witness to at a time when
again I don't want to oversell it but I
mean ecologically there's less and less
of the world that's not destroyed by
human human habitation human
exploitation so you know that's that the
situation what does an 18 that's that's
the framework and it's easy to forget
that just because so much of what gets
views on YouTube of course is have a
bikini body you know feel great for the
beach this weekend but even those people
I don't want to take that away from even
like a complete piece of [ __ ] like Cory
McCarthy you know the racist bodybuilder
or white supremacist vegan bodybuilder
why do you think he came on vegan
YouTube in the first place probably a
lot of the same motivations I'm talking
about here even I don't know some
despicable Instagram model selling you
know weight loss tea
or you know taking photos of resolver
bikini even those people a lot of them a
lot of those same you know keep issues
are there so I don't really want to want
to hate on them too much a lot of the
same impulses and I'd like to think
there's also a lot of the same potential
to do something positive in the future